The Bible book of Daniel is filled with imagery, visions, amazing scenery and architecture.
All of it serves to teach readers about the times we live in now and how we can faithfully
serve Jehovah.
The team that made Daniel a lifetime of faith had to portray these amazing things on film.
How did they do it?
The early concept art was made to help in the development of the many visual effects scenes.
The architecture and aesthetics of Babylon were quite different from what the Israelites
were used to.
The sets needed to be designed in a way that helped convey what it was like being captured
and brought to a foreign land.
The production design and sets and props departments built 360 degrees sets which made for an
immersive environment.
Many costumes and props were carefully handmade for the production.
Spearheads were hand forged.
Most of the filming was done at Mount Ebo Studios in Brewster, New York.
The additional scenes were filmed in nearby locations and in Florida.
Several miniature sets were built including a cigarette and then actors were filmed in
front of a green screen and inserted into the final shots.
As filming was completed, scenes were edited together and the visual effects team went
to work on many specialized shots.
Digital models of people and animals were animated and combined with footage of real environments
to make scenes that would have been impossible to film otherwise.
For example, a digital model was made of the immense image in King Nebuchadnezzar's dream.
The team researched the characteristics of the actual materials described in the scriptures
such as metals and rocks so that when the image falls, it appears realistic and believable.
Just look at the results of thousands of hours spent modeling, animating, simulating, rendering
and compositing music and sound effects at the final touches.
What do you see, Jehovah asked the prophet Amos?
What Amos saw taught him important lessons?
In the drama, Daniel, a lifetime of faith, what did you see?
And more importantly, what did you learn?